docs: updates to ct framework config for new ct arch (#4422)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: content/guides/getting-started/component-framework-configuration.md

title: Framework Configuration
---

Writing tests in Cypress is the same regardless of whichever UI library you
choose (React or Vue, currently). However, each framework requires a different
setup configuration.

Cypress currently supports the following frameworks for component testing:

| Framework                                 | UI Library |
| ----------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| [Create React App](#Create-React-App-CRA) | React      |

> | [Next.js](#Next-js) (Alpha)               | React      |

Reviewer: Was going to suggest this as well. You can just drop the <Badge /> component in here like it is in the [Migration Guide](https://cypress-documentation-git-udx-147-update-ct-c-5b2cf5-cypress-io.vercel.app/guides/references/migration-guide#Config-option-changes), etc. 

However, I'm now noticing there's something funky with the padding on these 😬  I added some a long time ago to the base badge element and got more specific with those E2E & CT content badges. I think these have just gotten used in a lot more places since then and that's not helping. Should be a small tweak if that's really the case.

## React

For React apps, we have built-in support for Create React App, Next.js, Vite,
and a custom webpack config.

### Create React App (CRA)

To configure component testing for a React app that uses

> [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/), you will need to configure a

Reviewer 2: Can you make sure that throughout this guide, `framework` and `bundler` are formatted as code (using backticks) and link out to the `devServer` section of the config guide?

Note that that section is currently called `devServer / devServerConfig`, which will likely change to `devServer` as part of these docs updates.

Author: I think this guide is the more appropriate place for devServer configuration info. The config ref guide links back to here.

### Next.js

<Alert type="warning">

Next.js is currently in alpha support for component testing. See

> [Next.js Caveats](#Nextjs-Caveats) for more info on current limitations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Next.js Caveats](#Next-js-Caveats) for more info on current limitations.
```

While you could pass in props directly to the page component in a component
test, that would leave these server-side methods untested. However, an
end-to-end test would execute and test a page entirely.

Because of this, we recommend using end-to-end testing over component testing
for Next.js pages and component testing for individual components in a Next.js
app.

> ### Vite

Reviewer 2: Can you call this header "React with Vite" (and the same for the Webpack header, in both the React and Vue sections) so the headers match the links in the framework table at the top of the page? It felt a little weird for me to click a link called "React with Vite" and then and up in a section titled "Vite."

You can find an example React project that uses Vite
[here](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-component-examples/tree/main/setup-vite-react-app).

### Webpack

To configure component testing for a React app that uses a custom
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) config, you will need to configure a
`devServer` with a framework of `react` and a bundler of `webpack` like so:

<cypress-config-file>
<template #js>

```js
const { defineConfig } = require('cypress')

module.exports = defineConfig({
  component: {
    devServer: {
      framework: 'react',
      bundler: 'webpack',
      // optionally pass in webpack config
      webpackConfig: require('webpack.config'),
    },
  },
})
```

</template>
<template #ts>

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'cypress'
import webpackConfig from 'webpack.config'

export default defineConfig({
  component: {
    devServer: {
      framework: 'react',
      bundler: 'webpack',
      // optionally pass in webpack config
      webpackConfig,
    },
  },
})
```

</template>
</cypress-config-file>

> If you don't provide one, Cypress will try to infer your webpack config. If
> Cypress cannot or you want to make modifications to your config, you can pass it
> in manually via the `webpackConfig` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't provide a webpack config, Cypress will try to infer it. If Cypress
cannot do so, or you want to make modifications to your config, you can specify
it via the `webpackConfig` option.
```

When you say "make modifications" what do you mean? Is the `webpackConfig` option merged in, or does it override?

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'cypress'

export default defineConfig({
  component: {
    devServer(cypressConfig: CypressConfiguration) {
      // return devServer instance or a promise that resolves to
      // a dev server here
      return {
        port: 1234,
        close: () => {},
      }
    },
  },
})
```

</template>
</cypress-config-file>

### Custom Index file

By default, Cypress renders your components into an HTML file located at
`cypress/support/component-index.html`.

The index file allows you to add in global assets, such as styles, fonts, and
external scripts.

You can provide an alternative path to the file using the `indexHtmlFile` option

> in the `component` config options:

Reviewer 2: Can you link to that section of the config here?

```js
{
  component: {
    devServer,

>     indexHtmlFile: '/custom/path/to/index.html'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    indexHtmlFile: '/custom/path/to/component-index.html'
```
